update grafana organization page based on feedback (#2607)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/tutorials/observability/multi-tenancy/creating-grafana-organization/_index.md

  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
---

> When you first log in to [your installation's `Grafana`]({{< relref "/tutorials/observability/data-exploration/accessing-grafana" >}}), you see the preselected `Grafana` organization called `_Shared Org_`. This shared organization contains a curated set of managed dashboards accessible to everyone with `Grafana` access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you first log in to [your installation's `Grafana`]({{< relref "/tutorials/observability/data-exploration/accessing-grafana" >}}), you see the preselected `Grafana` organization called `_Shared Org_`. This shared organization contains a curated set of managed dashboards available to everyone with `Grafana` access.
```

> If multiple teams access the observability platform, we recommend using multi-tenancy for data and dashboard isolation. The observability platform lets you create new organizations in self-service for this use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If multiple teams access the observability platform, you should utilize multi-tenancy to isolate data and dashboards. The observability platform lets you create new organizations in self-service for this use case.
```

Reviewer 2: Avoiding the `we` term

  displayName: MyOnlineShop
  rbac:
    admins:
    - customer:platform-admin
    - customer:ops-team
    editors:
    - customer:development-team
    - customer:devops-team
    viewers:
    - customer:marketing-team
    - customer:business-analysts
  tenants:
  - myonlineshop
```

Our operators will create this `Grafana` organization named _MyOnlineShop_. The system equips it with a basic set of data sources for Loki, Mimir and Alertmanager, giving you access to the `myonlineshop` tenant.

> ## RBAC Configuration

Author: ```suggestion
## RBAC configuration
```

> ## Role Based Access Control (RBAC) configuration

Author: ```suggestion
## RBAC configuration
```

The Role Based Access Control (RBAC) section defines how to assign groups from your configured identity provider to `Grafana` [organization roles](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/#organization-roles) (`Admin`, `Editor`, `Viewer`).

### Dex connector format

Most Giant Swarm installations use Dex as the identity provider. When using Dex, specify groups using the format `{dex-connector-id}:{group-name}`. For example:

- `customer:platform-admin` - Maps the `platform-admin` group from the `customer` Dex connector to Grafana Admin role
- `customer:development-team` - Maps the `development-team` group from the `customer` Dex connector to Grafana Editor role

You can find your Dex connector ID in your cluster's Dex configuration. Only the `admins` field is mandatory in the RBAC section.

For more details about organization mapping, see the official Grafana [OAuth documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/next/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/generic-oauth/#configure-role-mapping).

## Tenant governance

> The tenant field grants access to specified tenants and serves as tenant governance. The system only accepts tenants listed in **at least one** Grafana Organisation CRD as valid targets in the write path.

Reviewer: Maybe we should explain what a `tenant` is.
I feel like the relationship between `RBAC group`, `Organization` and `tenant` can be hard to understand.
Probably a drawing would help.
Something that would show:
- that you collect data on your clusters, and push it to some databases (mimir / loki) with an associated tenant
- and that the grafana organization creates a link between oauth groups and data tenants
- (and maybe explain at some point that allowing multiple tenants for 1 organization has some limitations)

Author: I agree that it makes sense. What do you think about adding it in another PR though? It would probably be a good pairing topic
